Wearables allow us to collect more data under more conditions and for more people.
Typically we'd only measure EKGs from
people that are suspected of having heart conditions.
But now Apple is measuring and looking for
atrial fibrillation from its large, mostly healthy population.
More research needs to be done into AFib itself to really know how
useful detecting AFib in this population actually is.
For example, what does it mean when someone under 40 has AFib?
Are they actually adding increase risk of stroke.The Framingham Study,
which connected AFib stroke so strongly was conducted in the '40s,
and '50s, and '60s,
where we didn't have wearable devices monitoring for AFib all the time.
You only really found out that you had AFib after you're
coming into the hospital and taking a routine EKG.
If your AFib wasn't persistent enough to show up at that time,
it would go undiagnosed.
In fact, for a lot of the stroke victims,
it was unknown that they even had AFib until
after they came into the hospital for the stroke itself.
So just because the population of
the Framingham Study was at a 5X increased risk of stroke,
it doesn't mean that the population that the Apple Watch is discovering AFib for,
is also at this increased risk in stroke.
What does it mean to the public health system when you're alerting all these people of
AFib just because you can monitor them more closely than you ever could before,
and how should patients and their doctors respond when they discover AFib?
Researchers in Apple Heart Study mentioned these concerns themselves,
and we have to figure this out before we can really understand the value of
using the Apple Watch as some screening or diagnosis tool.
These questions are an important area of research today.
On the flip side of this is that wearables offer
a great opportunity for precision medicine initiatives.
Precision medicine is the idea that therapy can be personalized on
an individual basis if we have enough information about the patient,
from their genetics and lifestyle to their response to specific treatments.
Wearable data can be used to learn some of this information.